magpie (thief)
Rich home not here. Rich home far away.
Here many bug, so staying for a bit.
After all, why leave good place?

Find many things when travel. Take many things rich home.
Home not born rich. Home rich from effort.
Effort of taking rich.

Never seen weird flower before. Have you seen?
Rich home have shiny flower. Pretty flower.
Not weird flower. Hungry flower. Better not touch.

otter (wings)
I spend most days looking at those with wings.
There are so many and they are so beautiful, like spirits.
Where do you think they come from? What would a spirit want from our world?

Sometimes I wonder what it would be like to have wings.
To glide across the sky and run my paws through the clouds.
My parents said I would look silly with wings, and I will never have them so I should stop dreaming.

The new flowers sticking out of the water, they're not really flowers are they?
I've seen them nip after anything that gets too close. Especially the flying ones.
They never get them, of course. Having wings is just better.

mushroom (hivemind)
We have known you since we first felt your ripples in the water.
We have always been here, and we will always be here.
And when the world does perish, we shall perish with it.

The ground stirs. The water ripples. A swarm of life.
A new event. To you and us both. Yet ancient it must be.
Where is all this life coming from?

Every seed we have felt. Every sprout we have seen.
These living flowers, we have neither felt nor seen before.
Do they disturb or disrupt? Are we threatened?
If this is the end, we welcome it all the same.

crab (punk)
Click-clack, yeah, I'm tough. Real tough.
If you had been through what I have been through, you'd know.
Well, not yet, obviously, but once I get off this boring island, you'll see.

Click-clack, I've been looking at that guy in the sand, over there.
He is here pretty often. It looks like he is just relaxing, but he said something about "overseeing the project".
Must be a tough job, if it requires so much relaxing. Some day I'll get a tough job too. Click-clack.

Click-clack, have you seen those crystal pillars?
They've opened up, it looks like they're expecting something.
Those crystals, they're real tough. I'd get a crystal shell if I could.

snail (scared)
Do you f-f-feel it, the warmth raining down on us here?
There is a h-h-hole high above us. A w-w-window where the sun looks in.
Its gaze has g-g-graced me with this lush bed of moss.

The w-w-world outside the cave scares me. You are very brave for travelling here.
Others l-l-like you have been here before, but they p-p-paid me no mind.
They went up higher into the c-c-cave. Up where I dare not go. I'm just fine r-r-right here.

Have you t-t-touched the crystals?
Their vibrations c-c-create a peculiar tone. Some might say it s-s-sounds pretty.
I have my d-d-doubts. If something spends so much energy j-j-just to attract other creatures, it c-c-can't have good intentions.

salamander (fanatic)
Ooooh, do you hear them singing?
The crystals, all around us! They sing for us both!
Is it not wonderful? Is it not marvelous?

Ooooh, I know what you're thinking. I see you staring at me.
One moment I'm sleeping on a nice cold crystal. Another moment we are one.
How long was the moment? Why do you care, I can sleep for however long I want.
Now I don't sleep anymore. I almost miss it.

Ooooh, once the crystals were not happy. They sang a song of anger!
There was machines and construction, a noise to no end.
But ooooh, the crystals closed the hole, the door, the entrance.
Now only the song of my sweet crystals echo the cavern walls again.

raccoon (detective)
Smell that? Something fishy is going on.
I snuck onto one of those big cargo ships, and I jumped off here while they off-loaded some machinery.
Now I've just got to gather clues, and clues are always found in the trash!

All this pollution. What's it for? What are they doing?
The factory churns unending so it must be something huge.
However, this trash pile has got me no clues as of yet. Perhaps I should expand my search.

I took a look around the perimeter. Some nasty work, I must say. Did you see the oil spill?
And those flickering TVs, what is up with those?
All this faulty electricity can't be good for the wildlife here. When I return I will put in my vote for more regulations.

eel (fisher)
Ugh! The fish! Where are the fish?
I've been hunting for so long, and no luck. It's just bugs on bugs on bugs.
Well, I'm tired of bugs! They all taste so... buggy. Still, an eel's got to eat.

Ugh! Some of the bugs here are nasty!
Covered in oil, tied up in seaweed, or stuck in plastic!
This used to be a place brimming with juicy fish, and now it's gone all thanks to that oil-soaked brick of a factory.

Ugh! Something zapped me as I was hunting.
Some of the electricity around here must still be working. Have you been tinkering with it?
The zap stunned me for a second, it was quite powerful. Which is actually giving me an idea...

turtle (depressed? smoker)
What's the point anymore?
It's all swim, eat, sleep, swim, eat, sleep, and it just goes on and on and on.
And look at me now. I'm stuck! I give up...

Thanks for bringing me some bugs, that was actually really nice of you.
While I've been lying here, I've been thinking that maybe being stuck is just a good reason to ask for help.
And asking for help is nothing to feel ashamed of, right?

The oil just keeps on coming, huh? No chance I'll be freed anytime soon I guess.
Well, you've been helping me, and I had a chat with that raccoon guy when they stopped by sniffing the flickering TVs.
It's nice to have someone stop by and check in, you know?

mole (shop keeper)